Iranian State media says a suspected
Israeli strike has destroyed an Iranian
Embassy building in the Syrian Capital
Damascus with the senior commander in
the powerful Iranian revolutionary guard
among those killed Israel hasn't
commented on the incident these are the
latest pictures we have of the scene
Iranian State television is reporting
the senior Commander is Resa zahedi who
led the Palestinian division of the
Revolutionary guard K's Force the UK
based War monitor the Syrian Observatory
for human rights says at least eight
people have died but as yet there's no
official confirmation of the figures
Iran's Ambassador and his family are
reportedly unharmed well let's get the
latest from our correspondent in
Jerusalem that's Hugo Bea uh Hugo what
more are you hearing about this
incident yeah Anita so this is a very
significant escalation so again as you
said uh Iranian and Syrian state media
saying that an Israeli uh air strike
targeted the Iranian Consulate in uh the
Syrian Capital Damascus and our uh
report suggest that the senior commander
of the powerful Iranian revolutionary
guards Muhammad Raa sahi was killed so
very significant a high-profile member
of Iran's revolutionary guards
reportedly killed so uh we're hearing
now these accusations we haven't had any
kind of re reaction from uh Israeli
authorities we know that over the last
few years uh Israel has carried out
attacks targeting uh positions and also
members of Iran's revolutionary guards
but uh it's really uh it's very rare for
the Israeli authorities to acknowledge
uh involvement in those assassinations
so uh again very significant uh
development we've seen that these
targeted assassinations have been
happening frequently since the beginning
of the war uh between Israel and Hamas
Hamas obviously is a group uh that is
supported by uh Iran it is part of
Iran's uh so-called axis of resistance
and we are having a reaction from Iran
uh already uh the Iranian authorities
are saying that they're going to give a
decisive response so uh again u a very
significant development it seems to be a
very significant escalation as well with
this attack Hugo thank you very much for
that Hugo Bea there let's talk now to
farz Maad who is a senior fellow at the
middle e Middle East Institute about
this story and um forz Hugo describing
this as an escalation do you see this
particular uh strike as an escalation of
what's been
happening there's no doubt about that
Anita I think some might want to sort of
write this off as part of sort of the
ongoing uh operations that Israel has
been conducting against both Iran and
some of the Iranian proxies operating
out of Syria namely Hezbollah there has
been senior very senior Iranian
commanders killed in the past including
uh one major strike in December however
this is the most senior Iranian
revolutionary C guard Commander to be
killed to dat and I think very
importantly what differentiates this is
that essentially the Iranian Consulate
in Damascus uh which is under
international law Iranian territory has
been flattened so um some major
escalation here on behalf of Israel of
course the Iranians have a preference to
taking the war to Israel via proxies
indirectly using Hamas Hezbollah
Palestinian Islamic Jihad and others the
Israelis here retaliating in a more
direct fashion willing to risk that
escalation yes and of course we're
waiting for absolute confirmation that
uh Muhammad resa zahi is amongst the
dead but that is certainly the report
that we are getting if we look at these
images from the scene uh of the
explosion I'm going to ask our director
to to pull up those images for us um as
far as we know what we're seeing here is
part of the consulate but the buildings
on either side appear relatively
undamaged so it does seem to have been a
very precise
strike yes Israeli Precision uh in going
after these individuals whether they be
in Syria or even in Lebanon has been
quite remarkable but has also been REM
remarkable and and noteworthy is the
fact that the Israelis have
quite powerful uh operational
intelligence they know where these
commanders are they've went after
several senior Hamas and hisbah
commanders in Lebanon targeting them
within meetings Target them in their own
private quarters uh and so that raises
quite a bit of questions and concerns in
terms of operational security for Iran
and for these groups in terms of
Israel's ability to get to them okay
farz thank you very much for your
thoughts on this developing story farz
Maad from the Middle East instit
and let's get more now from our
International editor Jeremy Bowen who is
in Northern Israel Jeremy hello to you
and I'd like you for our viewers to put
what has happened in Damascus into uh
The Wider context of what's going on in
the region especially since uh the war
between Hamas and
Israel well essentially there's been an
increasingly serious war going on uh
over the Israel Lebanon B order between
Israeli forces and hisb which is the
political militia movement dominant one
in Lebanon which is very close to Iran
also very close to the Syrian regime now
if it wasn't for the fact that so much
has been happening in Gaza in the war
since October the 7th I think there have
been a lot more International attention
on what's been happening here and of
course there are connections that's why
it's going on so what we've been hearing
here uh this evening there's quite been
quite a lot of activity going up towards
Lebanon the Border isn't too far from
here and I think what's been going on as
you've been hearing this is an
escalation by Israel uh I think they're
testing the resolve of both Iran and its
clients its allies hisbah particularly
in Iran to see how they will respond
because while they have been engaged
this particularly in a in a in a tit
fortat series of increasingly fear
exchanges with Israel they've always
kept it within what in this part of the
world is sometimes referred to as the
rules of the game hisbah going after
military targets uh but Israel seems to
be pushing it to move to the next level
quite repeatedly and this is a big
upward step so now the big question is
given that the Iranians particularly are
Keen to
keep to restore the deterrence they feel
they've been building up against their
enemies in other words their enemies
feeling that they can't hit Iran its
people or their targets well the
Israelis have said oh yes we can we're
going to do this so now the question is
does Iran respond how does how does it
respond it may not be the way that you'd
expect it may not be you know I wouldn't
expect them to start sending missiles
into Israel far from it might be a Cyber
attack I mean this is all speculation on
my part but the point is is that this
really increasingly dangerous war
between Iran and its allies and proxies
and the Israelis has tonight taken quite
a big step up and what impact Jeremy do
you think that is going to have on the
ground uh with regards to the situation
specifically in
Gaza well I think that Gaza now has its
own Dynamic there that's going on I
don't think that you know you can
actually there have been responses
elsewhere in the region because of
what's been happening in Gaza I don't
think it necessarily works the other way
around uh you know the point is when all
this started 6 months ago now October
the 7th there were fears that the war
would spread well the war has spread and
that has been clear at the very least
since the end of last year and this is
another example of the way that a part
of the world that is fragile and incend
that has now taken another step up you
know I've been doing some reporting
around here today uh up near the the
border with Lebanon in the town of kirit
Shimona the Israeli Town talking to the
mayor and the mayor says Israel should
invade Lebanon because it should invade
the South should take on his BAH and
destroy it because in this area
thousands of Israelis have not been home
since October they've all been evacuated
the towns are empty so you know this is
something which is a continuing crisis
which has every chance of getting worse
Jeremy thank you very much Jeremy Bowen
there for us our Middle East editor